## Autism, Teams & Socials ##
#people #nondotnet #TeamsAndSharePoint
Been There Done That or Here to Stay?
Come and listen to my experiences with Microsoft Teams during various lockdowns in times of pandemic. On behalf of my nonprofit, we used Microsoft Teams to connect people to stay connected in difficult times.
How to adapt Teams usage for non-business cases? What about virtual coffees and even virtual pub-nights? Do we listen to the LinkedIn questions like: “Drinking during Microsoft Teams meetings?”, “PJ parties in Microsoft Teams?”, “Can you be a DJ in combination with Microsoft Teams?” We worked with a customer experimenting how to bring as much as “real in-person life” to the virtual alternative.
But be serious, life is not only playing DJ in your PJ, it’s also about handling difficult conversations with people with serious mental difficulties, alcohol addiction and extreme loneliness. Microsoft Teams is one of the safest (or even the safest) meeting platforms for discrete topics and privacy. Does the more difficult it is to log-in equals the more difficult it is to hack?  
Back to the main question: “Been There Done That, or Here to Stay?” We connected people that live on long distances from each other. What about people only having public transport and missing meetings. ATM we experiment with hybrid solutions, (non-IT-people) in in-person meeting rooms with a Kinect streaming to attendees at home? I did and still do some nice experiments with that. Will it survive in the future for social cases? Or will teams return to business-only scenarios?
