## TABOO: When All Trust Is Gone ##
!! Trigger warning: This talk contains information about conspiracy theories and the pandemic !!

What are we doing in a society where the distance between people is bigger than ever? Our society is polarized more than ever! If this is the fault of the internet, information technologies, humanity, capitalism, something else or a combination of all of them we don't know. But we do know that we are living in a society where more and more are afraid of each other. We don't trust each other anymore. One of the reasons is that we have all different backgrounds and there are too many taboos. Too many topics we "shouldn't" talk about as "good people". The distance between people within the same neighborhood, company and family structure is bigger than ever. And then we also have the distance between people with fewer privileges for example living on a fee for sickness or disabilities over people with jobs on the 'lower-end' and 'high salary workers' to politicians, media and World Leaders.

What is the truth? Can we assume that everyone has the possibilities to know the truth? Is it the fault of the loner that missed the mainstream train? Is he/she/them the bad person? No, assuming this is too easy for the people with more privileges. Narrowing the finger that it's the other's fault makes the problem only bigger. We all have the responsibility to make sure we include everyone and nobody is left behind.

Today Ivette, a person that is honest about she became a conspiracy theorist during the pandemic because her trust in the system is gone and Dennie, a developer and a person in the autism spectrum are teaching you how empathy, communication and being open-minded can help you to understand each other better. We talk about deepfakes, the digital-litteracy-divide, education and technologies. In addition, we brainstorm what the ideal future is and how we can bridge the gaps in this polarized society.
Our end goal is figuring out how we all can help to build trust again.

